# Multiple-Linear-Regression
  This is a multiple linear regression test on Mike Trout to determine what factors contribute to the result of a ball put in play.  I pulled data from his 2016-2022 seasons using the baseballr package and the scrape_savant_batter() command that pulls all pitch data from baseball savant over that time span.  It only allows one year at a time so I pulled separately from all years and then combined the data into one data frame using rbind.  In deciding what to test here, I decided to try and find variables that contribute to the level of success on a ball that is put in play.  One of the variables given from the baseball savant data set is description, which tells if the pitch recorded results in a ball, called strike, swinging strike, foul ball, or hit into play.  I filtered out the data to just look at pitches that were hit into play.  
  With the data partially set up, I then had to decide how to quantify the results of a ball put in play to test it using multiple linear regression.  I wanted to take power into account so I decided to number events as such:  0 for outs, fielder's choices, errors and double plays, 1 for singles, 2 for doubles, 3 for triples, and 4 for home runs.  I did this using a nested ifelse statment, with the bar used as an or statement within for each classification. With the dependent variable set up for testing, I wanted to give a couple visuals showing Trout's results for some of the more popular variables in the baseball community, exit velocity and launch angle.  The first graph shows a scatter plot with exit velocity on the x-axis and launch angle on the y-axis, with the home runs hit highlighted.  This was to show the sweet spot for power as an initial visual for introduction.  I paired this graph with the same graph but doubles are highlighted, to show the clear difference in launch angle and exit velocity between home runs and doubles. Some of this seems obvious, but I wanted to visually show the difference before testing other variables.  
  Between the 92 variables given, I decided to narrow it down to 10 test variables to see if there is a significant effect on the outcome of a ball in play.  Those variables were events, balls, strikes, pitch speed, zone, exit velo, launch angle, hit distance, pitch type, outs when up, and inning.  Some of these were a long shot, but I wanted to be thorough.  Also, I had to quantify pitch type.  So, all types of fastballs I gave the number 1, curveballs 2, slider/cutter 3, and changeups 4.  As I did with the events variable, I used a nested ifelse statement to give the variables their numerical values.  
  The conclusions of the test show that the statistically significant variables at a 95% confidence interval are exit velocity, hit distance, launch angle, zone, and pitch type.  The variables that intrigued me were pitch type and zone.  It is a given that these are different areas quantified in baseball, but for arguably the best player in the last decade, I did not think these would be as significant.  Because of this finding, I decided to make a zone visual showing all of the balls put in play in each zone and how far they went, again highlighting the home runs.  This visual ended up being quite helpful, as a lot of the seemingly missing data points are most likely strikeouts in those zones, as the visual also showed he is much more successful on low pitches on the middle or outside of the plate. 
  Overall, this linear regression model shows some of Trout's strengths and weaknesses, and within the points can see the all-encompassing data of his ideal pitch to swing.   
